We've already said that the electronic power steering subsystem
is ASIL C for the lane departure warning functionality.
Although ASIL C is not the highest level of risk,
ASIL C still does add
many extra testing and verification demands not required by a lower ASIL.
Is there any way to lower the ASIL for at least some of the architectural elements?
It turns out that there is.
It's called ASIL decomposition.
Imagine part of our system is label ASIL D. If
we create two completely independent but redundant systems,
ISO 26262 actually allows us to label each redundant system ASIL B.
This comes from basic probability.
If the probability of a malfunction equals .8 then the probability that
two completely independent redundant systems will fail
together is .8 times .8 which equals .64,
redundant systems lower risk.
What is the benefit of creating independent redundant systems?
ASIL B requires less analysis and testing than ASIL D. For reference,
we should label the new Independent Systems ASIL B(D),
in recognition that the system was originally ASIL D. What are
the most common ASIL decompositions is splitting off
a single element into a non-safety relevant and safety relevant part.
The non-safety relevant block will be QM.
The benefit is that ISO 26262 will only apply to part of the original element.
Let's see how this works.
We are going to decompose the lane departure
warning software block inside the power steering ECU.
We will split the latest system software into two parts.
One software element will contain code for normal functional behavior.
We will create a separate software element to
take care of our functional safety requirements.
Let's look at our system architectural diagram again.
The electronic power steering software a block is labeled
ASIL C. With ASIL decomposition,
the software block that takes care of normal functional behavior now gets a QM(C) label.
The software block that takes care of malfunctions inherits the ASIL C. Now we no
longer have to apply ISO 26262 to the normal behavior software block.
By refining the architecture and determining ASILs,
we are figuring out how much risk is in each element and subsystem.
Decomposition then allows us to lower the ASIL of some of the architectural elements.